README.md, before:

# AWS Amplify Plugin for Serverless Framework

This is a plugin for the [Serverless Framework](https://serverless.com) that generates appropriate configuration files for using [AWS Amplify](https://aws-amplify.github.io) with the Serverless Framework.

## Installation

Install the plugin via Yarn (recommended)

```
yarn add aws-amplify-serverless-plugin
```

or via NPM

```
npm install --save aws-amplify-serverless-plugin
```

## Configuration

Edit your `serverless.yml` file to include something like the following:

```
plugins:
  - aws-amplify-serverless-plugin

custom:
  amplify:
    - filename: examples/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: AndroidUserPoolClient
      s3bucket: UserFiles
    - filename: examples/schema.json
      type: schema.json
    - filename: examples/aws-exports.js
      type: javascript
      appClient: WebUserPoolClient
      s3bucket: disabled
```

Each entry in the `amplify` section must consist of two parts, with two optional parts:

* `filename` is where you want the file to be stored.  The directory must already exist.
* `type` is one of the following:
    * `native` (an `awsconfiguration.json` type file),
    * `javascript` (an `aws-exports.js` type file),
    * `schema.json` (the AWS AppSync schema in JSON format),
* `appClient` is the name of the Amazon Cognito user pool app client configured within the `resources` section of the `serverless.yml` file.  It is optional.
* `s3bucket` is the name of the S3 Bucket used for the S3 transfer utility.  It is optional.  If `disabled`, no S3 bucket information is written to the configuration file.  If not included, the first non-deployed S3 bucket will be used.

See the `example` directory for a complete sample of an AWS AppSync client deployment with Amazon Cognito user pools.

### Another Example

Let's say you had four directories in your GitHub repository - one for the backend, one for your Android app in `android`, one for your iOS app in `ios` and one for your web resources in `web`, you could add the following to the `backend/serverless.yml` file:

```
plugins:
  - aws-amplify-serverless-plugin

custom:
  amplify:
    - filename: ../android/app/src/main/res/raw/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: AndroidUserPoolClient
    - filename: ../ios/MyApp/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: iOSUserPoolClient
    - filename: ../web/src/aws-exports.js
      type: javascript
      appClient: WebUserPoolClient
```

To deploy your backend and build all the clients, you might do the following:

```
$ (cd backend && sls deploy -v)
$ (cd android && ./gradlew build)
$ (cd ios && ./build)
$ (cd web && npm run deploy)
```

Once the deployment of the backend is done, the AWS configuration files needed for each of the builds will be updated.

**Note:** If you are generating a configuration file for an iOS build, ensure you do not "copy" the `awsconfiguration.json` file.  If you do, it will not be updated when the deployment happens.

## Supported Resources

The following resources are supported:

* AWS AppSync (either via `resources` or the [serverless-appsync-plugin](https://github.com/sid88in/serverless-appsync-plugin)).
* Amazon Cognito federated identities.
* Amazon Cognito user pools.
* S3 buckets for user file storage.

## Questions, Issues, Feature Requests

Check out the [issues tab](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-amplify-serverless-plugin/issues) at the top of the page!

Commit message:

Added support for AWS AppSync GraphQL files (#17)

README.md, after:

# AWS Amplify Plugin for Serverless Framework

This is a plugin for the [Serverless Framework](https://serverless.com) that generates appropriate configuration files for using [AWS Amplify](https://aws-amplify.github.io) with the Serverless Framework.

## Installation

Install the plugin via Yarn (recommended)

```
yarn add aws-amplify-serverless-plugin
```

or via NPM

```
npm install --save aws-amplify-serverless-plugin
```

## Configuration

Edit your `serverless.yml` file to include something like the following:

```
plugins:
  - aws-amplify-serverless-plugin

custom:
  amplify:
    - filename: examples/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: AndroidUserPoolClient
      s3bucket: UserFiles
    - filename: examples/schema.json
      type: schema.json
    - filename: examples/aws-exports.js
      type: javascript
      appClient: WebUserPoolClient
      s3bucket: disabled
```

Each entry in the `amplify` section must consist of two parts, with two optional parts:

* `filename` is where you want the file to be stored.  The directory must already exist.
* `type` is one of the following:
    * `native` (an `awsconfiguration.json` type file),
    * `javascript` (an `aws-exports.js` type file),
    * `schema.json` (the AWS AppSync schema in JSON format),
    * `graphql` (a sample GraphQL operations file for codegen)
* `appClient` is the name of the Amazon Cognito user pool app client configured within the `resources` section of the `serverless.yml` file.  It is optional.
* `s3bucket` is the name of the S3 Bucket used for the S3 transfer utility.  It is optional.  If `disabled`, no S3 bucket information is written to the configuration file.  If not included, the first non-deployed S3 bucket will be used.

See the `example` directory for a complete sample of an AWS AppSync client deployment with Amazon Cognito user pools.

### Another Example

Let's say you had four directories in your GitHub repository - one for the backend, one for your Android app in `android`, one for your iOS app in `ios` and one for your web resources in `web`, you could add the following to the `backend/serverless.yml` file:

```
plugins:
  - aws-amplify-serverless-plugin

custom:
  amplify:
    - filename: ../android/app/src/main/res/raw/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: AndroidUserPoolClient
    - filename: ../ios/MyApp/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: iOSUserPoolClient
    - filename: ../web/src/aws-exports.js
      type: javascript
      appClient: WebUserPoolClient
```

To deploy your backend and build all the clients, you might do the following:

```
$ (cd backend && sls deploy -v)
$ (cd android && ./gradlew build)
$ (cd ios && ./build)
$ (cd web && npm run deploy)
```

Once the deployment of the backend is done, the AWS configuration files needed for each of the builds will be updated.

**Note:** If you are generating a configuration file for an iOS build, ensure you do not "copy" the `awsconfiguration.json` file.  If you do, it will not be updated when the deployment happens.

## Support for GraphQL Code Generation (Android)

When you are configuring AWS AppSync for Android apps, you need three files.  In general,
these will be as follows:

```
plugins:
  - aws-amplify-serverless-plugin

custom:
  amplify:
    - filename: ../android/app/src/main/res/raw/awsconfiguration.json
      type: native
      appClient: AndroidUserPoolClient
    - filename: ../android/app/src/main/graphql/schema.json
      type: schema.json
    - filename: ../android/app/src/main/graphql/operations.graphql
      type: graphql
```

You can then follow the instructions within the [AWS AppSync Developers Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/appsync/latest/devguide/building-a-client-app-android-overview.html) to implement the AWS AppSync client.  The files generated will match those that are produced by the [AWS Amplify](https://aws-amplify.github.io) CLI.

## Supported Resources

The following resources are supported:

* AWS AppSync (either via `resources` or the [serverless-appsync-plugin](https://github.com/sid88in/serverless-appsync-plugin)).
* Amazon Cognito federated identities.
* Amazon Cognito user pools.
* S3 buckets for user file storage.

## Questions, Issues, Feature Requests

Check out the [issues tab](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-amplify-serverless-plugin/issues) at the top of the page!
